C# reference page (#192)
avohq/docs: pages/implementation/reference/csharp.mdx

---
layout: 'guide'
title: 'Avo Functions in C#'
---

import Link from '../../../components/Link';

### Platforms

Avo can code generate Avo Functions in C# targeted at the following platforms

- .NET Server
- Unity

#### Step 1. Include the Avo file

##### Pull the generated code with the Avo CLI

To get the Avo generated C# file you must be a member of an Avo workspace with a C# source. Ask for an invite from a colleague or create a <a href="https://avo.app/onboarding" target="_blank">new workspace</a>

```bash
$ npm install -g avo
$ avo login
$ avo pull --branch my-branch-name
```

Learn more about <Link passHref href="/implementation/cli"><a>the CLI here</a></Link>.

You can also <Link passHref href="/explore-tracking-plan/download-or-copy-avo-file-manually"><a>download the file manually</a></Link> from your Avo workspace.

#### Step 2. Initialize Avo

Initialize Avo by creating an object using constructor from the generated Avo file

```csharp
using Avo;

> Avo.Avo avo = new Avo.Avo(Avo.AvoEnv.Dev/*, other parameters depending on your tracking plan setup*/);

Reviewer: AvoAvo.Avo.avo? 😂

Author: AVO!!!111

```

The actual parameters depend on your tracking plan setup, see the parameters explanation in <Link passHref href="/implementation/reference/csharp#constructor"><a>the reference below</a></Link>.

#### Step 3. Call Avo functions to track your product usage

> Every event in your tracking plan, marked with the "Implement with Avo" checkbox, gets a function in the generated code, named according to the event name, in PasclaCase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every event in your tracking plan, marked with the "Implement with Avo" checkbox, gets a function in the generated code, named according to the event name, in PascalCase.
```

The parameters are named the same as system properties, in camelCase, and require corresponding types: string, int, long, float, bool, list, object or any.

`IDestination customDestination`: object, required if target source has a custom destination set up in Avo. Otherwise not present.

Custom destination interface format:

```csharp
interface ICustomDestination {
    void Make(AvoEnv env);

    void LogEvent(string eventName, IDictionary<string, object> eventProperties);

    void SetUserProperties(string userId, IDictionary<string, object> userProperties);

    void Identify(string userId);

    void Unidentify();
}
```

Read more about custom destinations <Link passHref href="/implementation/start-custom-destination"><a>here</a></Link>.

[//]: # 'TODO Find examples of C# custom destinations for each analytics destination in <Link passHref href="/implementation/destinations"><a>this section</a></Link>.'

`strict: Boolean`: bool, if true, Avo will throw an exception when it detects a tracking problem in development or staging. Note that the strict flag is ignored in production.

#### setAvoLogger

```csharp
public static ILogger __LOGGER__ = null;
```

> This filed allows you to provide custom implementation of the logger used by the Avo Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field allows you to provide a custom implementation of the logger used by the Avo Functions.
```

Can for example be used to disable logs or change which logging method is used.

##### Arguments

`Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger __LOGGER__`: custom implementation of the logger.

#### setSystemProperties

```csharp
 public void SetSystemProperties(int systemProperty0, bool systemProperty1, ...)
```

A method to update system properties after initialization.

##### Arguments

`systemProperties`: a number of parameters equal to the number of system properties defined in your Avo workspace.
The parameters are named the same as system properties, in camelCase, and require corresponding types: string, int, long, float, bool, list, object or any.

#### Event tracking functions

```csharp
public void [YourEventName](int eventProperty0, double? eventProperty1, ..., bool? userProperty0, IList<int> userProperty1, ..., string userId_, string anonymousId_)
```

Every event you define in your tracking plan in Avo gets a function named after the event in PascalCase. The arguments of the function depend on how it's defined in your tracking plan

##### Arguments

> `eventProperty: type defined in the Avo tracking plan, can be string, int, long, float, bool, list, object and any`:

Reviewer: Is this large code block intentional?

Author: Yes, not the best idea probably :)
